*** GnuCOBOL TUI (TEXT USER INTERFACE) TOOLS AND UTILITIES COLLECTON ***

In this folder you will find: 
- GnuCOBOL TUI TOOLS (GC01xxxxxx to GC98xxxxxx)   
- GnuCOBOL Utilities (GC99xxxxxx) 

Although the textual interfaces TUI are often replaced by graphical interfaces GUI, 
a good compiler have to allow to develop complete applications in an easy way 
even with textual user interfaces.

GnuCOBOL have to generate applications with objects that allow a classical and 
friendly user interface like other programming languages on windows and unix platform.
here you will find a collection of GnuCOBOL programs useful to this purpose.
The TUI Collection includes programs to manage classical TUI objects like: dropdown menus, 
Buttons, YES-NO buttons, on-screen messages, boxes, checkboxes, radiobuttons, listview, 
calculator, date picker, color picker, file picker, directory tree picker and so on.
All programs have been developed exclusively using GnuCOBOL 
(pure COBOL with some direct calls to "C" funtions from PDCURSES library but without "C wrappers").
They are GnuCOBOL programs you can "CALL" from your source to manage TUI objects like 
menus, boxes, buttons, checkboxes, radiobuttons, datepicker ... and so on ... 
You can choose objects attributes: position on screen, size, colors, borders, shadows, titles, 3D effect ...
Source files are well commented. Documentation of parameters is inside the copybooks.
Each TUI TOOL have one or more corresponding demo programs to show how to use the TOOL.
The GnuCOBOL sources have been compiled with GnuCOBOL 3.1.
Mouse management wass already added to some of TUI TOOLS. 
The implementation of the various Tools to add mouse management is currently underway.
Let me know if you have any suggestion or idea to improve/extend the tools.
Your suggestions will be very useful and welcome.

The collection has following TOOLS.

GC01BOX.COB - call it to display boxes on screen, you can specify back/fore colors, 
size, position, single/double/custom borders, 3D effect and so on. 
This function is mainly developed to be used by other following tools.

GC02BOXMEX.COB - call it to display messages on screen, you can specify back/fore 
colors, size, position, single/double/custom box borders, 3D effect and so on.

GC03YESNO.COB - it display a BOX with a simple message and two big buttons 
YES and NO on screen, you can specify back/fore colors, size, position, and so on.

GC09BUTTONS.COB - call it to display buttons on screen, you can specify number of 
buttons, back/fore colors, size, position, text of buttons, hotkey and so on.
2020: Mouse management was added.

GC13CHECKBOX.COB - call it to display checkbox items (switches) on screen, you can 
specify number of items, back/fore colors, size, position, symbol, brackets and so on.
2020: Mouse management was added.

GC15OFFON.COB - call it to display OFF or ON items (switches) on screen, you can 
specify number of items, back/fore colors, size, position, symbol, brackets and so on.
Mouse management in included to select items and to put switches ON or OFF.

GC18RADIOBUTTON.COB - call it to display rediobutton items (options) on screen, you can 
specify number of items, back/fore colors, size, position, symbol , brackets and so on.
2020: Mouse management was added.

GC21MENU.COB - call it to display menus on screen, you can manage bar menu, 
dropdown menu, specify number of items, text and length of items, back/fore colors, 
position, messages associated to menu items, and so on.
Mouse mgmt was added to select menu items. hot key mgmt added, This is the definitive version.
GC22MENU.COB - (now is obsolete) version of GC21MENU. 
It use "call getch" instead of ACCEPT OMITTED to detect keypress from user.

GC26LISTVIEW.COB - call it to display a window with an item list on screen. 
The user can scrolll/browse vertical and horizontal the list and select one of the items.

GC51CALYEAR.COB - call it to display a one year calendar on screen.
User can browse days, months and years to pick-up a date.

GC52COLORPICKER - Displays a colorpair map (back/foreground colors combination) 
Let the user to browse on it and pick up a color pair 

GC53CALENDAR.COB - call it to display a calendar on screen. three months on each row 
User can scroll months and years to display month / year calendar.

GC54FILEPICKER.COB - call it to display a window with a File list on screen.  
The user can browse vertical and horizontal the file list and select one of the items.
The user can also select and navigate Up and Down on directories 

GC55DIREPICKER.COB - call it to display a window with a Directory list on screen.  
The user can browse vertical and horizontal the Directory list and select one of the items.
The user can also select and navigate Up and Down on directories 

GC56DATEPICKER.COB - call it to display a one month calendar (regular or small size)
You can specify starting date, back/fore colors, size, position, single/double/custom 
borders, 3D effect and so on. User can browse days, months and years to pick-up a date.

GC58SAVERCLOCK.COB - call it to display a screen saver with a big clock and a scrolling 
string. the big clock will move randomly on screen. you can specify back/fore colors, 
size, position, single/double/custom borders, 3D effect and so on.

GC61CALC.COB - call it to display a simple pocket calculator on screen.
The user can enter numbers and operators. Returns the result of calculation to the caller .
GC64CALCULATOR.COB - call it to display a calculator on screen.
The user can also use the mouse to select digits and operators. 
Returns the result of calculation to the caller .

GC71CRUDExxxx.COB - A complete "CRUDE" (Create, Read, Update, DElete) application. 
It shows you how to create, read(browse), update, delete indexed file records. 
It is a real application (it manage a "master data" file) showing also:
- how to accept and check alphanumeric fields on screen, 
- how to accept and check numeric fields with sign and decimals,
- how to pickup a date, 
- how to use indexed files with alternate keys, 
- how to display context sensitive help information (from GC74HELPxxx TOOL). 
Copying and modifying this programs you can develop a lot of other type of applications. 

GC74HELPxxxx.COB - A "HELP" system. You can write text help files , load it on indexed files.
List the indexde file , access to this HELP messages from any CRUDE application.

GC76TABxxxxx.COB - A "TABLE" system. You can insert/write, edit, delete, list "TABLE" data.

GC99BANNER.COB - accept a string and print that string in big character.
Useful to print a banner page for your reports.

GC99MOUSEDEMO.COB - Shows how to programming the MOUSE in a TUI mode. 

AUTOMATIC COPY GENERATORS
-------------------------

GC99COPYGEN.COB - Automatic COBOL Copy generator from graphic Reports layout.
Useful for cobol programs that write reports. How to use it:
1. Create a .TXT text file with the graphical layout of your report. 
Set all constants and variables: 
- use one or more $ symbol when you want a PIC X field, 
- use one or more # symbol when you want a PIC 9 field. 
For a better graphical representation of the report you can also insert 
blank lines or repeated rows equal to previous lines.
2. run the program GC99COPYGEN to read  .TXT file containing the report layout
It will create the corresponding COBOL Copy in a .CPY text file. 
The program will skip blank lines and will skip rows equals to each other, 
eg. rows with same fields, will produce a single 01 level into the copy.
3. the generated COBOL Copy should be used directly in the COBOL program 
that will produce the report, or you can change it before, 
to enhance the COBOL Copy for a better PIC editing  
of individual fields directly in the copy.
See samples at 
https://sourceforge.net/projects/gnucobol/discussion/contrib/thread/e21eb9ba/#90fd

GC99SCREENGEN.COB - Automatic COBOL Copy generator from graphic Screen layout.
Useful for cobol programs that use SCREEN SECTION. How to use it:
1. Create a .TXT text file with the graphical layout of the SCREEN 
(25 (or more) rows x 80 (or more) columns). 
Set all constants and variables: 
- use one or more $ symbol when you want a PIC X field, 
- use one or more # symbol when you want a PIC 9 field. 
2. Run the program GC99SCREENGEN to read the .TXT file containing the SCREEN layout
It will create the corresponding COBOL Copy in a .CPY text file. 
3. the generated COBOL Copy should be used directly in the COBOL program 
that will display / accept the SCREEN, or you can change it before, 
to enhance the COBOL Copy for a better SCREEN display of individual fields.
