A GnuCOBOL program to change cobol programs to and from free format
and fixed format.

The script compileall will compile this program and make some sanity
checks but otherwise can be compiled by running :

cobc -x changeformat.cbl
chmod +x changeformat
cp changeformat ~/bin

The last one adds the program into your user bin directory but make
sure it is already setup and the chmod sets it executable in case
your system does not do so by default.

Program history, changes and bug fixes are listed in the identification
division

This program was developed using GnuCOBOL 2.0.0
Built Oct 10 2013 16:15:17 and Ubuntu 14.04
running on a Lenovo R61i laptop.

Tested under GnuCobol 2.1.0 under Mageia v4 X64
on a AMD FX8350 8 core desktop.

Send comments, bugs or criticisms to stevewilliams38@gmail.com

Usage:
-----

Standard mode:

changeformat P1 P2 P3 OP4 OP5 OP6
 (where OP = Optional parameters and
        P = mandatory parameters)

P1  = input-source-file
P2  = output-source-file
P3  = tofree or tofixed
OP4 = wd-after
OP5 - pd-after
OP6 = nocc1

P1 and P2 Input and Output file names
P3 specifies translation mode:
   tofree = convert fixed to free format
   tofixed = convert free to fixed format
OP4 ws-after = Use if you want floating comments to be placed after the
    line otherwise it defaults to before but only prior to the
    Procedure Division.
OP5 pd-after = Use if you want floating comments to be placed after the
    line otherwise it defaults to before but only on and after the
    Procedure Division.
OP6 nocc1 = Use if you want the code other than comments to start
    on cc 1 (column) All comments are always placed on cc 1.

Note that P3, and OP4 to OP6 can be in lower or uppercase.

Example to convert a program from fixed to free format using default
floating comments placement in working storage (before the line that
they appear and all floating comments in procedure division to appear
after the line that they appear and all code to start in column 2
along with the comments starting in column 1 (fixed default):

changeformat st010.cob ST010.COB tofree pd-after nocc1

Another example as above but making all floating comments appear after
the line instead of the default, before the line:

changeformat st010.cob ST010.COB tofree ws-after pd-after nocc1

Here is a variation called extended mode but using same parameters as
above with one change for P2.

P2 output path with a trailing slash i.e., / (for Linux)
                                        or \ (for native windows)

This will convert the program specified by P1 using the same filename
 but with the case changed to upper for tofixed or lower for tofree into
 the path specified by P2.

Example:

changeformat st010.cob ../stock-fixed/ tofree pd-after nocc1

or

changeformat st010.cob ~/cobolsrc/ACAS/stock-fixed/ tofree pd-after nocc1

Note that the trailing / is compulsory in this mode.

If you wish to do a batch of these extended mode operations an example script
is included called chgfmt.sh

Updated: 6 November 2014 (v1.1.3) (c) Steve Williams.
