READ any file named UPDATE first and do any actions specified
BEFORE doing any thing else.

READ any file named UPDATE first and do any actions specified
BEFORE doing any thing else.

Now read any file called README.1st.

Now read any file called README.1st.


Yes done twice to make sure you read it.
Failure to do so will make your data files un-usable with
Flightlog.

Finish off reading this file then read the manual.

Yes, the manual may not be complete or contain errors on both layout
and content.
Please report any you find using the Tracker tool on the
website or use the Forums if you cannot work out how to use it.

Reminders for users to do:
1. Script changes for your usage based on location or more importantly
   preferred date format (dd/mm/yyyy or mm/dd/yyyy or yyyy/mm/dd)
   See LC_TIME parameters when running Flightlog.

A. Copy prtpdf-sh-A4 or prtpdf.sh-Letter to prtpdf.sh depending on
the paper size you use.

It has been tested using a HP8600 inkjet
using Linux distro's Mageia v7 X64 and Raspberry Pi 3B+ Debian.
Where the Pi has an attached USB 1Tb hard drive linked to via
/etc/fstab.

The font sizing for A4 paper has not been copied over to that for US Letter
because I do not have that size any more.

Users of Letter should try both A4 then Letter and see if you get full
coverage but without going outside the size of the paper and if so use it.
If not try the Letter and see if that works better and if not adjust one or
both saving the original files first. IT IS RECOMMENDED that you only change
ONE SETTING AT A TIME. Then test it using the pdf reader of your choice.
Above based on my own tampering. :)

Likewise testing for flightlog has been run on the Pi and works exactly
the same as on Mageia v6 platform (an Redhat sourced version). Also
tested using Ubuntu.

Must get around to doing the same with Windows.


B. Copy run-flightlog.sh-UK, run-flightlog.sh-USA or run-flightlog.sh-Unix
to run-flightlog.sh depending on your date format, see manual for more
information.

Now modify run-flightlog.sh to your requirements if needed.
Note that this script uses an argument (date with suggested format of
yyyy-mm-dd or yyyymmdd etc) to create the back up archive.
If no argument is provided it will create as is a file called :
backup-.zip.  The script could be changed to test for no argument and if
so force date based on today or even not do a backup. If I remember and
have time I will do this, but assume I haven't.


2. The directory Airfields contains a list by the first 2 chars of the
ICAO code for many countries but by no means all of them.

There is also 2 files for each .PDF file obtained from the web and the
txt file which has been edited removing accented character and unwanted
(OK, by me) excessive text like 'Airfield', 'Airport' with international
replaced by Int'l in some cases and other just removed.

Note many of these include Public Heliports and at hospitals.

Just got bored, trying to clean them up when I considered adding them
to the airfield file. Went off that idea :)

Now an option for those that have a need? Is to using their countries
version of these or/and others is to create from them a csv record type
4 (Airfields) and add them into the Airfield file but it is a fair amount
of work when most pilots use but a fraction of the total in use for a
country and therefore just update after flying to a new airfield.

That said,  commercial crew may well want to do this when they get
on new routes and just add them in one hit - Your choice.
Doing so, does not require the full use of a CSV flight data file.

Here is a list of TODO features for the Flightlog program that may or
may not be added subject to user requests along with any reasons why:

There is no reason why it cannot be added to as a new Feature request.

For v2.02.00 - An change to work with TODO (2) completed but using hidden
menu options 3 for C and 4 for D.
Very much a try and see what it looks like after using prtpdf.sh as it 
might look a bit messy, does depend on settings in prtpdf.sh. 

Note that sub and monthly totals still show the full total breakdowns
so the printed output look off center - I have left this on purpose to
highlight them.  If users request it I will re-position them but note
that the flight totals are abbreviated for these options (3 & 4) and only
show times for day, night, IFR, Multi (engine) values where as the totals
provide a more detailed breakdown - see the manual for more information
on totalling for month and page brought forward and carried forward.

TODO (2) Compressed flight report using airfield names instead of icao codes
         completed as HIDDEN menu options 3 & 4 in place of options C & D.
TODO (7) Deleted as not possible due to too many variations of data.

Don't forget to look at the current Changelog file for up to date changes 
with the latest at the end.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

 TODO may be? (outstanding):

  20/10/18            4. Consider using Mysql RDB for all data used on a per 
                     pilot basis. Worth doing ?.
                     Would allow for extra statistics using SQL queries but 
                     again is this useful ?.
                     If application used as a web based system allows for multi
                     pilots by using one database per pilot by name via a login
                     facility.    Priority LOW / MEDIUM as would require users
                     to install Mysql package, bit OTT for low exp. users.
                     Could consider using Sqlite but err, why ?

  07/11/18            6. Consider using a web browser interface for display
                     and accepting data. Could be linked to (4).
                     THIS IS A HIGH TIME work load though, so unlikely.
                     Priority LOW.

  17/12/18            8. Consider re-introducing on data entry day and night 
                     landings for T & G flights but there again it should be 
                     specified in Remarks so is it really needed for the 90 Day
                     CoE ?.
                     CAA / FAA requirement ?
                     The problem with it is that it is not used for commercial 
                     or  military aircrew. Opions ?


End of README

30/11/2018 vbc - Initial creation.
13/12/2018 vbc - Minor clean up / updates for scripts.
14/12/2018 vbc - More script updates and other content.
17/12/2018 vbc - Minor clean up.
31/12/2018 vbc - Updated for v2.02.03.
23/03/2021 vbc - Clean up layouts of above and a typo.

